A few of my python projects.

- The first Python project here is analyzing four decades of movie data. The data set was downloaded from kaggle. 
I performed a bunch of cleaning operations to drop duplicates and figure out what percentage of values were missing in each column. 
After that I wanted to find out what were the parameters that contributed the most to gross revenue. To do this I generated correlation matrices and visualized them using seaborn and matplotlib and found that budget of the movie and number of votes received by it were highly correlated to the gross revenue of the movie. Please see the **Movie_Correlation_Project-3.ipynb** for the Jupyter notebook.

- The second project here is to generate a few plots in MatPlotLib. I start with generating squares of first few natural number and using a scatterplot with colormap to plot them. I then move onto to declaring a class that generates a "random walk" with a set number of points, I then use a scatterplot with colormap and both the starting and ending positions to show the path taken. I then model what an actual "brownian motion" would look like. Finally, I create a class that models a die with any number of sides and then plot frequency of a number occuring in a few trials. I show what this would look like for sum of rolling two 6 sided die, product of rolling two 6 sided die, sum of rolling two dies(one six sided and one 10 sided) and a multitude of other combinations. This project is to show that I am proficient to generate some very basic level plots using Matplotlib and Pygal. Please see: **Matplotlib_ch15.ipynb** for explicit code and plots. 

- The third project here is generating a few plots using MatPlotLib. These are from chapter 16 of Python Crash Course by Eric Matthes. I start by visualizing the daily high and low temperatures in 2014 in Sitka, Alaska and Death Valley, CA. I then compare the two and find that the daily variation is a lot in Death Valley as compared to Sitka. This is to be expected since deserts go through more temperature variation. I then plot the population of each country in 2010 and then group this into three categories. Finally, I plot the percent forest area of each country. I found a few unexpected results here. Comng from India, I always throught that India has very few forests. I found that indian has 24% of land as forest. Data always humbles you. Please see: **MatPlotLib_ch16.ipynb** for explicit code and plots.  

- The fourth project here is generating a few plots after using API to pull data from a website. I start by pulling data from GitHub API and plotting the most starred project in both Python and C language. Then, I pull data from HackerNews API and plot the most commented articles. This project was done to show basic proficiency in using API to pull data from websites and visualizing the pulled data. Please see: **API_ch17.ipynb** for explicit code and plots.
